Made changes in channel-and-group-conversations.md (#14323)
MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs: msteams-platform/bots/how-to/conversations/channel-and-group-conversations.md

Reviewer: The video's outdated now isn't it?

Reviewer: Expand on this - can bots not be added to private channels, or do they just "not work" there?

Reviewer: Why, and how? Could maybe just make this more neutral and indicate that the message contents will include the at-mention.

Reviewer: "Every message to your bot from a group or channel contains an @mention with its name in the message text." This no longer really holds; agents are more expected to listen to every message in a chat.

---
title: Channel/Group Conversation Chat Bot
description: Learn how to work with user mentions, send messages, and handle bot installation in channel and group chats using the Teams SDK.
ms.topic: article
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.author: nickwalk
ms.owner: angovil
ms.date: 06/23/2026
---
# Channel and group chat conversations with a bot

<!-- [!INCLUDE [pre-release-label](~/includes/v4-to-v3-pointer-bots.md)] -->

This article focuses on bot conversations in teams and group chats, not in personal (1:1) chats.

## Install your bot in teams and group chats

> To install the Microsoft Teams bot in a team or group chat, add the `teams` or `groupchat` scope to your bot. This allows all members of the conversation to interact with your bot. After the bot is installed, it has access to metadata about the conversation, such as the list of conversation members. Also, when it's installed in a team, the bot has access to details about that team and the full list of channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable users to intsall a bot in a team or group chat, add the `teams` or `groupchat` scope. This allows all members of the conversation to interact with your bot. After the bot is installed, it has access to metadata about the conversation, such as the list of conversation members. Also, when it's installed in a team, the bot has access to details about that team and the full list of channels.
```

# [TypeScript](#tab/typescript2)

```typescript
app.on('install.add', async ({ send }) => 
{ 
    await send('Hello! I\'m your bot. Here\'s what I can do...'); 
}); 

```

# [Python](#tab/python2)

```python
@app.on_install_add 
async def handle_install_add(ctx: ActivityContext[InstalledActivity]): 
    await ctx.send("Hello! I'm your bot. Here's what I can do...") 

```

* * *

Don't send proactive welcome messages to users individually when the bot is installed in a team or group chat. If you send a welcome message, post it in the installed conversation and mention the person who added the bot.

>[!NOTE]
> Ensure that the message sent by the bot is relevant and adds value to the initial message and doesn't spam the users.

Don't send a message in the following cases:

* When the team is large, for example, larger than 100 members. Your bot can be seen as spam and the person who added it can get complaints. You must clearly communicate your bot's value proposition to everyone who sees the welcome message.
* Your bot is first mentioned in a group or channel instead of being first added to a team.
* A group or channel is renamed.
* A team member is added to a group or channel.

> [!INCLUDE [sample](~/includes/bots/teams-bot-samples.md)]

Reviewer: Shouldn't this include go at the end? If it's going here, the header needs to be an H3, otherwise the section doesn't make any sense in the middle of the page.

---
title: Channel/Group Conversation Chat Bot
description: Learn how to work with user mentions, send messages, and handle bot installation in channel and group chats using the Teams SDK.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.author: anclear
ms.owner: angovil
ms.date: 05/15/2026
---
# Channel and group chat conversations with a bot

<!-- [!INCLUDE [pre-release-label](~/includes/v4-to-v3-pointer-bots.md)] -->

> To install the Microsoft Teams bot in a team or group chat, add the `teams` or `groupchat` scope to your bot. This allows all members of the conversation to interact with your bot. After the bot is installed, it has access to metadata about the conversation, such as the list of conversation members. Also, when it's installed in a team, the bot has access to details about that team and the full list of channels.

Reviewer: This is good guidance but needs to be moved into a section below with its own header. Here, this article needs a gentler lead-in, particularly a sentence indicating that this article is specifically about teams and group chats _as opposed to_ 1:1 chats.

> Bots in a group or channel only receive messages when they're mentioned @botname. They don't receive any other messages sent to the conversation. The bot must be @mentioned directly. Your bot doesn't receive a message when the team or channel is mentioned, or when someone replies to a message from your bot without @mentioning it. The Teams SDK provides a dedicated `mention` activity route to handle @mention events.

Reviewer: "Bots in a group or channel only receive messages when they're mentioned `@botname`." Clarify this, the note below and the neighboring article in the TOC directly contradict it.

> Unlike personal chats, in group chats and channels, your bot must provide a quick introduction. You must follow these and more bot design guidelines. For more information on how to design bots in Teams, see [how to design bot conversations in channels and chats](~/bots/design/bots.md).

Reviewer: "Unlike personal chats, in group chats and channels, your bot must provide a quick introduction." I think this is wrong on all counts?

> Now, you can send proactive messages and easily manage different conversations in channels. For more information, see [proactive messaging](/microsoftteams/platform/teams-sdk/essentials/sending-messages/proactive-messaging).

Reviewer: Not sure what this is intended to add?

# [Python](#tab/python)

```python
@app.on_message
async def handle_message(ctx: ActivityContext[MessageActivity]):
    mentions = [e for e in (ctx.activity.entities or []) if e.type == "mention"]

    if mentions:
        first_mention = mentions[0].mentioned
        await ctx.send(f"Hello {first_mention.name}")
    else:
        await ctx.send("Aw, no one was mentioned.")

```

* * *

### Add mentions to your messages

> Your bot can mention other users in messages posted in channels. The Teams SDK provides the `AddMention` method on `MessageActivity` to include user mentions in your messages.

Reviewer: > AddMention

This method has a different name across all 3 languages; see if you can switch this article to use a language-based zone pivot instead of tabs so this kind of stuff can be correct in-line.

The following code shows an example of adding mentions to your messages:

# [C#](#tab/dotnet1)

```csharp
app.OnMessage(async context =>
{

>     await context.Send(new MessageActivity($"Hello!").AddMention(context.Activity.From));

Reviewer: If you do this, where does the mention show up in the text of the message? Is there a way to put it inline, like a human would do?

}
```

# [Python](#tab/python1)

```python
@app.on_message 
async def handle_message(ctx: ActivityContext[MessageActivity]): 
    await ctx.send(MessageActivityInput(text="Hello!").add_mention(account=ctx.activity.from_))

```

* * *

You can also mention users by their Microsoft Entra Object ID or User Principal Name (UPN), and mention tags in channel messages.

##### Support for Microsoft Entra Object ID and UPN in user mention

> [!INCLUDE [<User Mention>](../../../includes/bots/user-mention.md)]

Reviewer: >Bots support user mention IDs, such as Microsoft Entra Object ID and User Principle Name (UPN) in addition to the existing IDs. Incoming Webhooks start to support user mention in Adaptive Card with the Microsoft Entra Object ID and UPN.

Second message is word salad

> ## Send a message on installation

Reviewer: Move this section first, before mentions, because it's so much shorter and logically happens first in a bot workflow.

> When your bot is first added to a group or team, an introduction message must be sent. The message must provide a brief description of the bot's features and how to use them. Use the `install.add` lifecycle route to listen for the installation event. For more information, see [proactive messaging](/microsoftteams/platform/teams-sdk/essentials/sending-messages/proactive-messaging).

Reviewer: "When your bot is first added to a group or team, an introduction message must be sent." This is not correct, see [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/teams-store-validation-guidelines#bots-1:~:text=Bot%20welcome%20messages%20in%20channels%20and%20chats%20are%20optional%20during%20first%20run).

You can also store the `conversationId` during installation to enable [proactive messaging](/microsoftteams/platform/teams-sdk/essentials/sending-messages/proactive-messaging) later.

The following code shows an example of sending welcome messages on installation:

# [C#](#tab/dotnet2)

```csharp
app.OnInstall(async context => 
{ 
    await context.Send("Hello! I'm your bot. Here's what I can do..."); 
}); 

```

# [TypeScript](#tab/typescript2)

```typescript
app.on('install.add', async ({ send }) => 
{ 
    await send('Hello! I\'m your bot. Here\'s what I can do...'); 
}); 

```

# [Python](#tab/python2)

```python
@app.on_install_add 
async def handle_install_add(ctx: ActivityContext[InstalledActivity]): 
    await ctx.send("Hello! I'm your bot. Here's what I can do...") 

```

* * *

> You can send a personal message to each member of the team when the bot is added. To do this, fetch the team roster and send each user a direct message using the `app.Send(conversationId, message)` method. For more information, see [proactive messaging](/microsoftteams/platform/teams-sdk/essentials/sending-messages/proactive-messaging).

Reviewer: "You can send a personal message to each member of the team when the bot is added. To do this, fetch the team roster and send each user a direct message using the `app.Send(conversationId, message)` method." This is explicitly disallowed for store apps, see [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/teams-store-validation-guidelines#bots-1:~:text=Your%20bot%20mustn%27t%20send%20welcome%20messages%20to%20users%20individually%20(it%27s%20considered%20spamming))

## See also

* [Teams SDK - API Client](/microsoftteams/platform/teams-sdk/essentials/api)
* [Teams SDK - Microsoft Graph Integration](/microsoftteams/platform/teams-sdk/essentials/graph)
* [Create private channel on behalf of user](/graph/api/channel-post#example-2-create-private-channel-on-behalf-of-user)

> * [Teams SDK - Teams Integration Overview](/microsoftteams/platform/teams-sdk/teams/overview)

Reviewer: Add links to the targeted messages and slash commands pages, those are both very relevant to bots in group chats and channels
